<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="merged-dita-map-format" xml:lang="en">
    <title>DITATea Merged DITA Map Format</title>
    <conbody>

        <section>
            <title>Purpose and Compatibility</title>
            <p>The source file format accepted by the DITATea library must match the merged DITA map
                format produced by the DITA Open Toolkit <xmlelement>pdf2</xmlelement> plug-in. For
                reference, see the <xref
                    href="https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/reference/pdf-transform" format="html"
                    scope="external">PDF2 plug-in documentation</xref>. This compatibility
                guarantees correct traceability, merging, and output rendering.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Required Namespace Declarations</title>
            <p>The merged DITA map must declare the required XML namespaces to ensure compatibility
                with DITA Open Toolkit output and DITATea processing. The root element
                    (<xmlelement>map</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement>) must include
                the following namespace declarations.</p>
            <table frame="all">
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="prefix" colwidth="3*"/>
                    <colspec colname="uri" colwidth="7*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Namespace Prefix</entry>
                            <entry>Namespace URI</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>(default namespace)</entry>
                            <entry><filepath>http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/</filepath></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlnsname>opentopic</xmlnsname></entry>
                            <entry><filepath>http://www.idiominc.com/opentopic</filepath></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlnsname>dita-ot</xmlnsname></entry>
                            <entry><filepath>http://www.dita-ot.org/ns/201007/dita-ot</filepath></entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p>The default namespace covers all standard DITA elements. The
                    <xmlnsname>opentopic</xmlnsname> prefix must be declared for the
                    <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> container. The
                    <xmlnsname>dita-ot</xmlnsname> prefix is required for processing-specific
                attributes like <xmlatt>dita-ot:x</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>dita-ot:y</xmlatt> on table
                cells.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Root Element</title>
            <p>The merged file must represent the entire resolved DITA project through its root map
                element. The root must match the source type.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>For a regular map, the root must be <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>.</li>
                <li>For a book map, the root must be <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement>.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Topic Hierarchy</title>
            <p>All referenced topics must be resolved and merged directly into the map structure.
                Topicless containers, such as empty <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> or topicless
                    <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> elements, must be represented by placeholder
                    <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> elements to maintain a complete hierarchy.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Preprocessing Resolution</title>
            <p>All key references (<xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>), content references
                    (<xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>), and filtering conditions
                must be resolved during preprocessing. The merged map contains only resolved
                content, with no remaining indirect references.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>opentopic:map Element</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> element appears directly under the root
                    <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement>. It contains
                the complete resolved map hierarchy, the document-level title structure, and any
                publication metadata. The <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> never contains
                topic bodies. All fully resolved <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> elements follow the
                    <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> as direct siblings in the same file.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Document Titles</title>
            <p>The merged output must include a complete resolved document title structure. The
                structure differs for <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> and
                    <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> roots.</p>
            <p><b>Book map structure.</b> A <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> root must include:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>The root <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> element.</li>
                <li>A direct child <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> that contains: <ul>
                        <li><xmlelement>booktitle</xmlelement> as the first child, containing all
                            parts of the resolved book title.</li>
                        <li><xmlelement>bookmeta</xmlelement> immediately after
                                <xmlelement>booktitle</xmlelement> if publication-level metadata
                            exists.</li>
                        <li>The resolved map hierarchy using <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement>,
                                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>,
                                <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement>, and valid structural nodes.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>All fully resolved <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> elements appear after
                        <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> as siblings. Each topic includes its
                    own <xmlelement>title</xmlelement>.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>The <xmlelement>booktitle</xmlelement> must include all parts defined in the
                source.</p>
            <table frame="all">
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="element" colwidth="3*"/>
                    <colspec colname="desc" colwidth="7*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Element</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlelement>mainbooktitle</xmlelement></entry>
                            <entry>Primary resolved book title text.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlelement>maintitle</xmlelement></entry>
                            <entry>Optional legacy element. If present, must match
                                    <xmlelement>mainbooktitle</xmlelement>.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlelement>subtitle</xmlelement></entry>
                            <entry>Optional subtitle text if defined in the source.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlelement>edition</xmlelement></entry>
                            <entry>Optional edition information if defined in the source.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p><b>Regular map structure.</b> A <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> root must include:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>The root <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element.</li>
                <li>A direct child <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> that contains: <ul>
                        <li><xmlelement>title</xmlelement> as the first child, holding the resolved
                            map title text.</li>
                        <li><xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> immediately after
                                <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> if map-level metadata exists.</li>
                        <li>The resolved map hierarchy with <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>,
                                <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement>, and valid nodes. </li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>All resolved <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> elements appear after
                        <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement> as siblings.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Accessing Additional Metadata</title>
            <p>Additional name/value pairs are stored as <xmlelement>othermeta</xmlelement>
                elements. The exact location depends on the root map type.</p>
            <p>In a merged <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement>, the <xmlelement>othermeta</xmlelement>
                elements appear inside a <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> container, which is
                nested inside <xmlelement>bookmeta</xmlelement> inside the
                    <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement>.</p>
            <p>In a merged regular <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>, the
                    <xmlelement>othermeta</xmlelement> elements appear directly inside the
                    <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element inside the
                    <xmlelement>opentopic:map</xmlelement>.</p>
            <p>Each <xmlelement>othermeta</xmlelement> provides a single name/value pair using the
                    <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>content</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
        </section>





        <section>
            <title>DITA Class Attribute</title>
            <p>Each element must include a valid <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute declaring its DITA
                specialization.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Source File Attribute</title>
            <p>Each element must include an <xmlatt>xtrf</xmlatt> attribute with the absolute URI of
                its source file for traceability.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Unique Identifiers and Cross-References</title>
            <p>In a normal DITA project, every topic, section, table or figure that can be linked to
                must have an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> that is unique inside its own file. However, DITA
                does not require IDs to be unique across the whole project because topics are
                reusable in different maps and contexts. The same ID might appear in many files, for
                example, if different topics all have an ID like <codeph>introduction</codeph>. When
                these files are separate, there is no conflict. But when all topics are merged into
                a single output document, any repeated IDs would collide if nothing is done to fix
                them. To avoid this, the merging step generates new globally unique identifiers for
                every topic, section, table or figure so that each one has exactly one unique ID in
                the final output.</p>
            <p>In source DITA files, cross-references rely on this multi-file structure by using a
                multi-part <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>. A typical cross-reference includes the target file
                name, the ID of the root topic inside that file, and optionally an ID of an element
                inside that topic. For example, a link might look like
                    <codeph>soap.dita#soap_topic/soap_types_table</codeph>. This means: open the
                file <filepath>soap.dita</filepath>, find the topic with ID
                    <codeph>soap_topic</codeph>, then find the table with ID
                    <codeph>soap_types_table</codeph> inside it. When all topics are merged into a
                single file, filenames are no longer valid and the old multi-part links no longer
                work. During merging, all cross-references are rewritten to use the new unique IDs
                only. The result is a simple fragment reference like
                    <codeph>href="#unique12345"</codeph>. This guarantees that every link goes
                directly to the right element in the single merged file without depending on old
                filenames or duplicate IDs.</p>
        </section>


        <section>
            <title>Table Entry Positioning</title>
            <p>Each table cell must carry explicit positioning attributes. The table below defines
                the required attributes for table entries.</p>
            <table frame="all">
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Attribute</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlatt>colname</xmlatt></entry>
                            <entry>Column name if <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> elements
                                exist</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlatt>dita-ot:x</xmlatt></entry>
                            <entry>Column number position for the cell. <note type="attention">Known
                                    issue: DITA-OT 2.5.4 may miscalculate this if horizontally
                                    merged cells appear first in a row.</note></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><xmlatt>dita-ot:y</xmlatt></entry>
                            <entry>Row number for the table cell</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </section>

    </conbody>
</concept>
